# ABET Constraints Essay

Normally building any sort of game-playing bot goes strictly against a game company's ToS. They ruin the game for many of the real players which by proxy hurts the game company. For example, gold sellers in popular MMOs such as RuneScape, Final Fantasy XIV, and World of Warcraft can effectively ruin the in-game economies by controlling a large portion of the in-game currency and weighting it against real-world values. In response to bots, many game companies actively seek legal action against companies and ban individuals in-game that build or use bots. Frequently, game developers build in-game countermeasures to reduce the efficacy of bots. In our case however, Blizzard has explicitly allowed bot creation, going so far as to provide the tools and an API necessary that hook directly into instanced versions of Starcraft2. This is an expansion upon previously green-lighted efforts of creating AI for Starcraft Broodwar (Starcraft2's predecessor) and opens Starcraft2 up for AI research.


Following up on legal constraints of our project, are our potential ethical challenges. While Blizzard has sanctioned bot-creation, that doesn't mean we're without ethical concerns. One of the key aspects of Starcraft2 is it's competitiveness. As such, an ethical quandary faced by the creation of our project is the fact that it has the potential to impinge upon the competitive integrity of Starcraft2. In competitive Starcraft, there is an assumption that the competition is between two human players, not a human and a computer (unless explicitly selected). The ranked competitive ladder is built upon an adapted ELO system, where players at the top of the ladder often represent the best players in the competitive scene. As such, these players often receive renown, opportunities to compete at tournaments, and prizes. When an AI is introduced into this mix, it can skew the competition with an inhuman level of skill. Which in turn, leads to actual human players being left out of their rightful places in the rankings and cheating them out of the rewards they would receive from being highly ranked. Another issue is that while knowing you are playing against a bot that you don't have a chance of winning against simply isn't fun, it also breaks the competitive assumption - that two human players are competing against each other for their spot on the ranked ladder.


Next we consider the financial needs of our AI. Properly developing and training our AI has the potential to be exorbitantly expensive. If we follow DeepMind's approach to tackling this problem, we could theoretically need millions of dollars. DeepMind has utilized over 250 million USD on the computing power needed to simulate a large number of Go games and subsequently teach their AI how to play Go. In comparison, DeepMind has noted that using "standard" consumer hardware (i.e. our laptops or desktop computers) it would take at least 500 years to reproduce the rigor of training done by DeepMind. Knowing these outlandish stats, we have to scale down our approach drastically. We likely will need to purchase or rent a small distributed GPU cluster, which can vary in price quite a bit. At first we will use our own hardware to develop our proof of concept, verify it's ability to learn and play as best we can, then scale this to a GPU cluster and make investments as needed.


The fourth concern of our project is potential professional development and the need of specialized expertise. Artificial Intelligence is a hot-topic in today's technology scene, from self driving cars being developed by Waymo and Ford to game-playing AIs such as AlphaGo; computer scientists with AI-development skillsets are a sought-after commodity. Furthermore, there is very domain-specific knowledge required in order to work on this project. For our project, we plan to use either a recursive neural network or a convolutional neural network to power our AI. The decisions made by these networks are known to be blackboxes, as such prior domain knowledge about how they work is important in designing and creating feature sets to be consumed by them. Additionally, our AI is a domain-specific AI, therefore domain knowledge about Starcraft2 will be beneficial while developing the AI.
